All right so up to this point we've looked at most of each team all five and the basics of CSX.
We created a little hotel Web site and it does use some elements of responsive design but it still isn't
responsive because we have yet to add media queries where they're needed.
If you go and you take the hotel website and you make your browser really small it's going to look like
crap.
But we're gonna fix that by the end of this section.
So I just want to quickly go over what responsiveness is and how we can achieve it.
Then we'll jump in we'll look at media queries and some other stuff such as relative CSX units so responsive
design is when we use each team Alan assess to make a web site or an application layout respond to different
screen sizes and a few years ago making a web site or layout responsive was kind of a luxury I can actually
remember asking clients if they wanted to pay extra to make their Web site responsive.
But now it's really a necessity.
It's not an add on or a luxury.
And the reason for that is the huge increase of the use of smartphones and tablets and other devices.
A lot of people now don't even have computers.
They're fine with either a tablet or even their smartphone.
So let's look at some of the different ways to achieve responsive design.
So the viewport tag is important because it tells the browser how to handle the pages and dimensions
and scaling.
We've already set this in our pages and it's actually default with Emmett with our boiler plate generation
in V.S. code using fluid widths is also something we've done remember our containers we use max width
instead instead of just width allows the text to adapt to smaller screen sizes.
Now the most significant part of Responsive Web Design and probably the most difficult are media queries
not setting them but learning how to use them and when to use them and media queries allow us to specify
certain CSF styles based on the screen size.
So for example if we wanted to float some elements if the screen was bigger than six hundred pixels
we could write a media query for that if we wanted a font size to be smaller on just mobile devices
that were 500 pixels or less we could do that as well.
All right so we're going to we're going to do that.
And we're also going to update our hotel project to use media queries.
Another good idea is to use REM units over pixels it keeps sizes intact with the rest of the page because
a rem unit is a multiplier of whatever the root H HTML elements font size is case and we're going to
we're going to go over that in this section we're also going to talk about VH and VW units.
So we also have a design method or strategy called mobile first which is pretty popular these days.
This is where you first design the layout for mobile devices meaning small screens and then you add
your media queries for the larger screen styles and you might even display less content on mobile devices.
You know your most important content and then have more and larger devices when you have more real estate.
And we're actually going to do a mobile first project later on all right.
So in the next video I want to start to look at media queries in their syntax.
Then we'll talk a little bit about relative units like RAM and M and finally will update our hotel project
to be responsive.